welcome to the man of recaps this is
house of cards season 5 President Frank
Underwood is running for election he's
losing to the attractive and charismatic
governor will Conway but last season
these two American kids kidnapped a
family in the name of the terrorist
group ICO and Frank let them execute
this guy on livestream to sow terror
across the nation and now he's rising in
the polls things to his tough stance on
terror the FBI finally tracks the guy
down but when they stormed his hideout
there was nobody actually there because
Frank had him the whole time they caught
him awhile back and he was just waiting
for the right moment
Frank's also manipulating the election
with his guy at the NSA a Tanic Allen
who was harvesting voter data illegally
to use it to help Frank win there's a
whole thing where to hide his tracks he
has to hack the whole government but
they just play it off as another terror
attack but even with all this cheating
on election night Frank is still gonna
lose so he and Claire are like okay it's
time to get serious one of the terrorist
leaders of ICO happens to share a name
with some random guy living in Tennessee
so they get the NSA guy to fake the
terrorist Intel and the bomb threat is
going they have to close the polls and
election night is declared null and void
apparently the rules for this are that
the House of Representatives elects the
president vice president though was
chosen by the Senate and Claire
underwood is popular enough she wins
that vote and she's sworn in as
temporary acting president but Frank has
to join the creepy secret society of
the wealthiest most powerful men in
America the robes are only the one night
though mostly it's just a fun camping
trip most of these guys support Conway
but Frank starts winning them over
especially because with this whole
election shenanigans Conway's become a
little unhinged in fact one of his
friends is like yo he can't handle the
stress of president I'm gonna give you
this recording of will cursing out his
pilots one day so they meet with
Conway's campaign manager mark pusher
who's like yeah I know Conway is going
down and he's fine with this because
Connolly's been pissing him off lately
too so Conway concedes defeat and Frank
Underwood's president once again they
bring mark Ashur into the inner circle
because he's a real smart well-connected
guy and he helped Frank at the whole
camp thing they also bring in jane davis
who is director of nothing at a small
department but she seems to know
everything that's going on earlier she
helped Claire through a fake bomb scare
that was set up by a general who wanted
Conway to win and the Underwood's don't
know this but these two go way back so
who knows what their true motives are at
the NSA internal affairs starts snooping
around so Aidan freaks out and
males he goes to Russia where president
viktor petrov is using him as leverage
against the Underwood's
in a whole deal about a sinking ship and
a missing scientist and some Chinese
trade agreement it doesn't matter
so they blame it on Lian Harvey because
Aden was her friend in fact there were
more than friends they were lovers Doug
Stamper is like hey we need you to set
him up so he's assassinated or else
you're fired
this for some reason turns our on and
these two get it on in case you're
curious about Doug's love life he's
still banging the widow of the guy whose
liver he stole the say Frank's life he
finally comes clean to her but she's
like yeah I know the timing was super
obvious
I've just been hate screwing you so they
break up but anyway LeAnn chooses her
job and she sets up a din and he is
assassinated to prove that she's fully
committed to the Underwood's she hands
over all the sensitive data even gave
her but then on her way home she's in a
sketchy car crash cuz Frank has taken no
chances with loose ends speaking of
loose ends
reporter Tom hammerschmidt gets a visit
from this girl who was Rachel's friend
she thinks Doug Stamper killed her which
of course he did but there's no proof of
any of this but there's a new reporter
Sean Jeffries he's not afraid to get a
little dirty to find the proof that she
at least knew Rachel but Tom
hammerschmidt fires him because he stole
his notes to go track her down but this
makes Tom want to reopen the Zoe Barnes
case and he gets an anonymous tip a
security video of the train platform
that day and a guy who looks a lot like
Doug Stamper Sean Jeffries gets a job at
the White House because his girlfriend
still works at the Herald and he's able
to tell Frank about the whole story
they're cookin so Frank calls Doug for a
fancy dinner and he's like hey bud
you're gonna have to take the fall on
this Zoe Barnes thing I know it was me
that actually killed her but you're
gonna confess it was you and that I had
nothing to do with it and Doug is loyal
to the bone so he going to jail but for
Frank Underwood the scandals never end
this is congressman Romero a rising star
in the house Frank needed his help to
get elected so he promised him a
shout-out in his inauguration speech but
he snubbed him to teach this kid a
lesson so Romero starts a whole special
inquiry into Frank's corruption they
bring in ex-president Garrett Walker
who's happy to plead the fifth until
he's like you know what screw Frank he's
guilty as hell so now Frank ship is
sinking even longtime ally Cathy Durant
is gonna testify against him so he
pushes her down the stairs to stop that
not very subtle
Frank but Jane Davis comes to him like
Frank your presidency is tainted these
scandals are never gonna stop because
you just made too many enemies along the
way
and he's like oh I have a plan
so Frank goes to testify against himself
and he's like you know what I am corrupt
but so are every single one of you this
whole system's messed up so I'm done
with it I resign this takes Claire by
surprise but he's like don't worry honey
it's all part of my plan in fact me and
Doug have been the ones leaking the
information to the papers see if you
take yourself down you get to control
how it happens
brilliant see he realized that even
though he keeps narrowly beating all
these scandals they're gonna keep
following him as long as he's in the
public eye when he was out camping he
realized it's those guys behind the
scenes who hold the true power so he's
gonna join them and Claire gets to stay
here and be President and together they
will rule the country of course first
she has to give him a presidential
pardon or he's going to jail so Claire
underwood is president for real this
time
her inner circle is still marking Jane
this guy whose name I forgot didn't do
much this season so they replaced him
with new guy hey remember writer Tom
Yates
he's been Claire's vice presidential
booty call all season it's no secret
affair though Frank knows about it in
fact he had his own brief affair with a
civil war re-enactor turned personal
trainer I haven't mentioned clarin Tom's
affair yet because it's been incredibly
boring basically he just stands around
in mopes
but eventually he decides to write a
fiction novel that is very obviously
based on his and Claire's relationship
so she has sex with him so hard that he
dies just kidding it was poison but
Claire has now personally committed her
first murder she got Marcus her to clean
up her mess and he's like wow you owe me
one you're gonna make me vice-president
so clears making a great acceptance
speech but one thing noticeably missing
is a pardon for Frank
he tries calling her that night and
she's like no I don't think so she looks
at the camera and she's like my turn now
and that's how season five comes to an
end
[Music]